---
title: "Zwicker"
---

# NMR Spectrum Analysis and Prediction in Spectrus Processor JS

#### V. E. Zwicker

##### Advanced Chemistry Development GmbH, Hahnstr. 70, 60528 Frankfurt a. M.

###### E-Mail: vincent.zwicker@acdlabs.com

NMR spectroscopy is one of the most important analytical methods
chemists have available to elucidate or confirm the structure of small
(and large) molecules [1]. While the instrument hardware is undoubtedly
the crucial part in acquiring NMR data with good quality and in a
reasonable amount of time, NMR analysis software is often a factor that
is overlooked when it comes to productivity and efficiency in the field.

Spectrus JS is a web-based application which allows chemists to process,
analyse, predict and report their NMR spectra in their web browser. The
ability to use the software from the web browser means that there is no
need for the individual chemist to download, install, update and
maintain their NMR software, and allows chemists to focus on the
analysis of their NMR data.

This presentation will showcase four key features of Spectrus JS:
Firstly, NMR processing will be demonstrated using real Bruker NMR data
for a small molecule. This includes Fourier Transformation of the raw
data, phase and baseline correction, referencing, peak picking and
integration, as well as the determination of coupling constants.
Secondly, the ability to organise NMR data into projects will be shown,
a functionality which helps chemists to collate project related NMR data
in a single file. Thirdly, the prediction of 1D and 2D spectra of
compounds will be demonstrated. NMR spectrum prediction is often a key
function chemists use to help interpret their own spectra quicker and
more confidently [2]. And lastly, it will be shown how to generate
spectra reports and multiplet reports, which are often needed for
journal or patent submissions, fast and efficiently.

1.  Bross-Walch, N., Kühn, T., Moskau, D., & Zerbe, O. (2005).
    Strategies and tools for structure determination of natural products
    using modern methods of NMR spectroscopy. Chemistry & biodiversity,
    2(2), 147-177.
2.  Jonas, E., Kuhn, S., & Schlörer, N. (2022). Prediction of chemical
    shift in NMR: A review. Magnetic Resonance in Chemistry, 60(11),
    1021-1031.
